SCORE by example
================

Token & Crowdsale
-----------------

This document will explain how to write SCOREs with T-Bears framework.
Let’s start by creating a simple token contract. You can create an empty
project using ``init`` command. Suppose your project name is
‘sample_token’ and the main class name is ‘SampleToken’.

::

   $ tbears init sample_token SampleToken

Above command will create a project folder, ``sample_token``, and
generate ``__init__.py``, ``sample_token.py``, and ``package.json``
files in the folder. ``sample_token.py`` has the main class declaration
whose name is ``SampleToken``. You need to implement ``SampleToken``
class.

IRC-2 standard defines the common behavior of tokens running on ICON.
IRC-2 compliant token must implement following methods. The
specification is here,
`IRC-2 <https://github.com/icon-project/IIPs/blob/master/IIPS/iip-2.md>`__.

.. code:: python

   @external(readonly=True)
   def name(self) -> str:

   @external(readonly=True)
   def symbol(self) -> str:

   @external(readonly=True)
   def decimals(self) -> int:

   @external(readonly=True)
   def totalSupply(self) -> int:

   @external(readonly=True)
   def balanceOf(self, _owner: Address) -> int:

   @external
   def transfer(self, _to: Address, _value: int, _data: bytes=None):

Below is a complete token implementation. You can copy and paste it to
fill your ``sample_token.py``. Note that ``TokenFallbackInterface`` is
declared in the beginning to interact with ``SampleCrowdsale`` contract
defined later. (In fact, ``tbears samples`` command will generate the
two sample projects, ``standard_token`` and ``standard_crowdsale``, with
the complete source code provided. However, we used ``init`` command
here to illustrate how to create a new project.)

When you deploy the contract, ``on_install`` method is called. You can
pass the amount of initial tokens to the parameter ``initialSupply``,
and, in this example, 100% of initial tokens go to the contract owner.

.. code:: python

   from iconservice import *

   TAG = 'SampleToken'


   # An interface of ICON Token Standard, IRC-2
   class TokenStandard(ABC):
       @abstractmethod
       def name(self) -> str:
           pass

       @abstractmethod
       def symbol(self) -> str:
           pass

       @abstractmethod
       def decimals(self) -> int:
           pass

       @abstractmethod
       def totalSupply(self) -> int:
           pass

       @abstractmethod
       def balanceOf(self, _owner: Address) -> int:
           pass

       @abstractmethod
       def transfer(self, _to: Address, _value: int, _data: bytes = None):
           pass


   # An interface of tokenFallback.
   # Receiving SCORE that has implemented this interface can handle
   # the receiving or further routine.
   class TokenFallbackInterface(InterfaceScore):
       @interface
       def tokenFallback(self, _from: Address, _value: int, _data: bytes):
           pass


   class SampleToken(IconScoreBase, TokenStandard):

       _BALANCES = 'balances'
       _TOTAL_SUPPLY = 'total_supply'
       _DECIMALS = 'decimals'

       @eventlog(indexed=3)
       def Transfer(self, _from: Address, _to: Address, _value: int, _data: bytes):
           pass

       def __init__(self, db: IconScoreDatabase) -> None:
           super().__init__(db)
           self._total_supply = VarDB(self._TOTAL_SUPPLY, db, value_type=int)
           self._decimals = VarDB(self._DECIMALS, db, value_type=int)
           self._balances = DictDB(self._BALANCES, db, value_type=int)

       def on_install(self, _initialSupply: int, _decimals: int) -> None:
           super().on_install()

           if _initialSupply < 0:
               revert("Initial supply cannot be less than zero")

           if _decimals < 0:
               revert("Decimals cannot be less than zero")

           total_supply = _initialSupply * 10 ** _decimals
           Logger.debug(f'on_install: total_supply={total_supply}', TAG)

           self._total_supply.set(total_supply)
           self._decimals.set(_decimals)
           self._balances[self.msg.sender] = total_supply

       def on_update(self) -> None:
           super().on_update()

       @external(readonly=True)
       def name(self) -> str:
           return "SampleToken"

       @external(readonly=True)
       def symbol(self) -> str:
           return "ST"

       @external(readonly=True)
       def decimals(self) -> int:
           return self._decimals.get()

       @external(readonly=True)
       def totalSupply(self) -> int:
           return self._total_supply.get()

       @external(readonly=True)
       def balanceOf(self, _owner: Address) -> int:
           return self._balances[_owner]

       @external
       def transfer(self, _to: Address, _value: int, _data: bytes = None):
           if _data is None:
               _data = b'None'
           self._transfer(self.msg.sender, _to, _value, _data)

       def _transfer(self, _from: Address, _to: Address, _value: int, _data: bytes):

           # Checks the sending value and balance.
           if _value < 0:
               revert("Transferring value cannot be less than zero")
           if self._balances[_from] < _value:
               revert("Out of balance")

           self._balances[_from] = self._balances[_from] - _value
           self._balances[_to] = self._balances[_to] + _value

           if _to.is_contract:
               # If the recipient is SCORE,
               #   then calls `tokenFallback` to hand over control.
               recipient_score = self.create_interface_score(_to, TokenFallbackInterface)
               recipient_score.tokenFallback(_from, _value, _data)

           # Emits an event log `Transfer`
           self.Transfer(_from, _to, _value, _data)
           Logger.debug(f'Transfer({_from}, {_to}, {_value}, {_data})', TAG)

Now, we are going to write a crowdsale contract using above token. Let’s
create a new project for the crowdsale contract.

::

   $ tbears init sample_crowdsale SampleCrowdsale

Our crowdsale contract will do the following.

-  Exchange ratio to ICX is 1:1. Crowdsale target, token contract
   address, and its duration are set when the contract is first
   deployed.
-  ``total_joiner_count`` function returns the number of contributors,
   and ``check_goal_reached`` function tests if the crowdsale target has
   been met.
-  After the crowdsale finished, ``safe_withdrawal`` function transfers
   the fund to the beneficiary, contract owner in this example, if the
   sales target has been met. If sales target failed, each contributors
   can withdraw their contributions back.

Again, complete source is given below. Note that crowdsale duration is
given in number of blocks, because SCORE logic must be deterministic
across nodes, thus it must not rely on clock time.

.. code:: python

   from iconservice import *

   TAG = 'SampleCrowdsale'


   # An interface of token to give a reward to anyone who contributes
   class TokenInterface(InterfaceScore):
       @interface
       def transfer(self, _to: Address, _value: int, _data: bytes=None):
           pass


   class SampleCrowdsale(IconScoreBase):

       _ADDR_BENEFICIARY = 'addr_beneficiary'
       _ADDR_TOKEN_SCORE = 'addr_token_score'
       _FUNDING_GOAL = 'funding_goal'
       _AMOUNT_RAISED = 'amount_raised'
       _DEAD_LINE = 'dead_line'
       _PRICE = 'price'
       _BALANCES = 'balances'
       _JOINER_LIST = 'joiner_list'
       _FUNDING_GOAL_REACHED = 'funding_goal_reached'
       _CROWDSALE_CLOSED = 'crowdsale_closed'

       @eventlog(indexed=3)
       def FundTransfer(self, backer: Address, amount: int, is_contribution: bool):
           pass

       @eventlog(indexed=2)
       def GoalReached(self, recipient: Address, total_amount_raised: int):
           pass

       def __init__(self, db: IconScoreDatabase) -> None:
           super().__init__(db)

           self._addr_beneficiary = VarDB(self._ADDR_BENEFICIARY, db, value_type=Address)
           self._addr_token_score = VarDB(self._ADDR_TOKEN_SCORE, db, value_type=Address)
           self._funding_goal = VarDB(self._FUNDING_GOAL, db, value_type=int)
           self._amount_raised = VarDB(self._AMOUNT_RAISED, db, value_type=int)
           self._dead_line = VarDB(self._DEAD_LINE, db, value_type=int)
           self._price = VarDB(self._PRICE, db, value_type=int)
           self._balances = DictDB(self._BALANCES, db, value_type=int)
           self._joiner_list = ArrayDB(self._JOINER_LIST, db, value_type=Address)
           self._funding_goal_reached = VarDB(self._FUNDING_GOAL_REACHED, db, value_type=bool)
           self._crowdsale_closed = VarDB(self._CROWDSALE_CLOSED, db, value_type=bool)

       def on_install(self, _fundingGoalInIcx: int, _tokenScore: Address, _durationInBlocks: int) -> None:
           """
           Called when this SCORE first deployed.

           :param _fundingGoalInIcx: The funding goal of this crowdsale, in ICX
           :param _tokenScore: SCORE address of token that will be used for the rewards
           :param _durationInBlocks: the sale duration is given in number of blocks
           """
           super().on_install()

           Logger.debug(f'on_install: fundingGoalInIcx={_fundingGoalInIcx}', TAG)
           Logger.debug(f'on_install: tokenScore={_tokenScore}', TAG)
           Logger.debug(f'on_install: durationInBlocks={_durationInBlocks}', TAG)

           if _fundingGoalInIcx < 0:
               revert("Funding goal cannot be less than zero")

           if _durationInBlocks < 0:
               revert("Duration cannot be less than zero")

           # The exchange ratio to ICX is 1:1
           icx_cost_of_each_token = 1

           self._addr_beneficiary.set(self.msg.sender)
           self._addr_token_score.set(_tokenScore)
           self._funding_goal.set(_fundingGoalInIcx)
           self._dead_line.set(self.block.height + _durationInBlocks)
           price = int(icx_cost_of_each_token)
           self._price.set(price)

           self._funding_goal_reached.set(False)
           self._crowdsale_closed.set(True)  # Crowdsale closed by default

       def on_update(self) -> None:
           super().on_update()

       @external
       def tokenFallback(self, _from: Address, _value: int, _data: bytes):
           """
           Implements `tokenFallback` in order for the SCORE
           to receive initial tokens to reward to the contributors
           """

           # Checks if the caller is a Token SCORE address that this SCORE is interested in.
           if self.msg.sender != self._addr_token_score.get():
               revert("Unknown token address")

           # Depositing tokens can only be done by owner
           if _from != self.owner:
               revert("Invalid sender")

           if _value < 0:
               revert("Depositing value cannot be less than zero")

           # start Crowdsale hereafter
           self._crowdsale_closed.set(False)
           Logger.debug(f'tokenFallback: token supply = "{_value}"', TAG)

       @payable
       def fallback(self):
           """
           Called when anyone sends funds to the SCORE.
           This SCORE regards it as a contribution.
           """
           if self._crowdsale_closed.get():
               revert('Crowdsale is closed.')

           # Accepts the contribution
           amount = self.msg.value
           self._balances[self.msg.sender] = self._balances[self.msg.sender] + amount
           self._amount_raised.set(self._amount_raised.get() + amount)
           value = amount // self._price.get()
           data = b'called from Crowdsale'

           # Gives tokens to the contributor as a reward
           token_score = self.create_interface_score(self._addr_token_score.get(), TokenInterface)
           token_score.transfer(self.msg.sender, value, data)

           if self.msg.sender not in self._joiner_list:
               self._joiner_list.put(self.msg.sender)

           self.FundTransfer(self.msg.sender, amount, True)
           Logger.debug(f'FundTransfer({self.msg.sender}, {amount}, True)', TAG)

       @external(readonly=True)
       def totalJoinerCount(self) -> int:
           """
           Returns the number of contributors.

           :return: the number of contributors
           """
           return len(self._joiner_list)

       def _after_dead_line(self) -> bool:
           # Checks if it has been reached to the deadline block
           Logger.debug(f'after_dead_line: block.height = {self.block.height}', TAG)
           Logger.debug(f'after_dead_line: dead_line()  = {self._dead_line.get()}', TAG)
           return self.block.height >= self._dead_line.get()

       @external
       def checkGoalReached(self):
           """
           Checks if the goal has been reached and ends the campaign.
           """
           if self._after_dead_line():
               if self._amount_raised.get() >= self._funding_goal.get():
                   self._funding_goal_reached.set(True)
                   self.GoalReached(self._addr_beneficiary.get(), self._amount_raised.get())
                   Logger.debug(f'Goal reached!', TAG)
               self._crowdsale_closed.set(True)

       @external
       def safeWithdrawal(self):
           """
           Withdraws the funds.

           If the funding goal has been reached, sends the entire amount to the beneficiary.
           If the goal was not reached, each contributor can withdraw the amount they contributed.
           """
           if self._after_dead_line():
               # each contributor can withdraw the amount they contributed if the goal was not reached
               if not self._funding_goal_reached.get():
                   amount = self._balances[self.msg.sender]
                   self._balances[self.msg.sender] = 0
                   if amount > 0:
                       if self.icx.send(self.msg.sender, amount):
                           self.FundTransfer(self.msg.sender, amount, False)
                           Logger.debug(f'FundTransfer({self.msg.sender}, {amount}, False)', TAG)
                       else:
                           self._balances[self.msg.sender] = amount

               # The sales target has been met. Owner can withdraw the contribution.
               if self._funding_goal_reached.get() and self._addr_beneficiary.get() == self.msg.sender:
                   if self.icx.send(self._addr_beneficiary.get(), self._amount_raised.get()):
                       self.FundTransfer(self._addr_beneficiary.get(), self._amount_raised.get(), False)
                       Logger.debug(f'FundTransfer({self._addr_beneficiary.get()},'
                                    f'{self._amount_raised.get()}, False)', TAG)
                   else:
                       # if the transfer to beneficiary fails, unlock contributors balance
                       Logger.debug(f'Failed to send to beneficiary!', TAG)
                       self._funding_goal_reached.set(False)
